Below is a list of research projects I am currently doing or have completed.
I have a lot more to say about all of these projects: interesting details that I completely skipped and/or simplified for conciseness.
When I have the time, I may write a seperate .txt file, further detailing each project.

-- RSVD Error Correction using Free Probability

Free probability is hugely important for noncommutative objects, and I feel its applications have not been explored to its fullest extent yet.
The (Randomized) Singular Value Decomposition is one such example. SVD is a perfect fit for free probability applied to random matrices, and randomized numerical linear algebra in general, but it has not been touched yet.
I propose a free-probability based correction to RSVD which performs a free deconvolution. My method proves to produce lower residuals than normal RSVD for large matrices under the spiked signal-plus-noise model.

-- Intra-representational Alignment

Representational alignment (RA) seeks to compare subsets of two different embedding spaces. Oddly enough, no research has been performed on similarities between subsets of the same embedding space.
We call subsets of a language 'metaphorical domains', and compare Centered Kernel Alignment (a technique in normal RA), Graph Edit Distance, and a sparse variant of both. We find the sparse variants perform significantly better than the non-spare variants.

-- More efficient parsing for compositional embedding models

I am discussing a potential project with a research group in UCL (the guys who made DisCoCat [https://arxiv.org/abs/1003.4394]).
The current parser they use (see [https://github.com/Quantinuum/lambeq/tree/main/lambeq/text2diagram/model_based_reader]) is slow, processing about 50k words per hour.
A problem with their current parser (I think) is that they train a transformer to categorise grammatical objects:
- e.g., 'the dog' may be parsed as a noun phrase (NP).
I am looking into a version which uses less ML and more straightforward parsing, assuming the user types a coherent prompt. Like most parsers, I will write it in a functional programming language (NOT Python).

-- Language as a fluid

My friend, Afjal, and I are working on a computational fluid dynamics project to study how language can be modelled over time as a fluid.
We are using a method similar to piDMD, detailled in Afjal's blog post:
- [https://medium.com/data-science-collective/using-randsvd-and-pidmd-to-optimise-dynamic-mode-decomposition-9f345f7865e1]

-- Applying probabilistic computing to optimise OPM-MEG brain scanning

Throughout term 1 of second year, I wrote a python package which implemented RandNLA algorithms with probabilistic hardware.
To demonstrate its versatility, I then applied it as a proof-of-concept to optimise OPM-MEG brain scanning.
Obviously, RandNLA algorithms, despite being much faster, are rather lossy. To fix this, I used an ising model to 'naturalise' the noisy brain scanning outputs.